========================
 Topical Meeting Agenda
========================

Common Agenda
=============

Before the meeting:

- Ensure the specific topic + agenda is shared with the team at least
  1 day ahead of the meeting.
- Ensure an attendee is available to be a note taker.

Most Topical Meetings reuse this common agenda:

#. Select upcoming topics for at least the next two weeks.
#. Clarify the topic and describe take-away goals. (~1 minute)
#. Summarize the status of the topical area: (~4 minutes)

   * If it's new to most of the audience give an intro/overview.
   * If it's familiar to most give a summary of recent progress.

#. Main agenda - defined by meeting MC. ~40 minutes.
#. Conclusion: ~5 minutes

   * Were the meeting goals in step 1 met?
   * Are the follow up tasks and owners clear?
   * Any parting thoughts.

Meeting coordinator tips
------------------------

- Set a countdown timer or clock you can refer to, especially if you
  can share it with the attendees.
- If any subtopic takes too much time and is important to make progress
  on, spin off a follow up meeting with a focused group.

Topics Queue
============

#. 2017-05-16 Payment Disclosure Demo + various tickets.
#. 2017-05-23 XCAT
#. 2017-05-30 Block/Transaction validation efficiency; mempool protections; merge tool(?)
#. 2017-06-06 Project Beswick
#. 2017-06-13 Infrastructure knowledge-share 
#. 2017-07-11 Existing Database Design / Implementation Overview - *Simon & Daira*
#. 2017-07-25 CI Improvements - *Nathan-ish*
#. 2017-08-01 XCAT - *Jay & Ariel*
#. 2017-08-08 1.0.11 release planning - *Nathan*
#. 2017-08-15 HF0 Wishlist Ticket Review - *Nathan*
#. 2017-08-22 Bitcore support, TREZOR, insight, etcâ€¦ - *Str4d*
#. 2017-09-05 Sapling planning - *Sean* (eng meeting bumped one day due to company holiday)
#. 2017-09-12 Database Reliability / Database Migration - *Daira*
#. 2017-09-19 Documentation - *Paige*



Unsorted Topic Proposals
========================

* Experimental Features (maybe use payment disclosure as a good case).
* Viewing keys - (Per txn? Recipient attestation?)
* Security Issue Postmortem
* Porting PRs from upstream

Also see `Previous topical meetings and notes <https://github.com/Electric-Coin-Company/zecc-private/wiki/Engineering-meeting-notes>`_.
